Yagna uninstall instructions (#256)
golemfactory/golem-docs: src/pages/docs/creators/javascript/examples/tools/requestor-uninstall.md

---
title: How to remove Yagna?
description: Step-by-step guide to removing Yagna components, configs, and data for Requestors.

> type: noindex

Reviewer: Noindex should probably not be here. We want that to be searchable

Reviewer: I will edit that as it doesn't allow me to search on the preview. I think we should always check how our search looks when adding new articles. They should be easy to find using proper keywords.

> type: noindex

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: article
```

---

# Golem Requestor uninstallation guide

{% alert level="warning" %}

> Before removing Yagna please make sure you have backup-up your private key to the address where you have GLMs. You can find instructions [here](/docs/creators/javascript/examples/tools/golem-wallet-backup).

Reviewer: Before removing Yagna, please make sure **you have backed up** your private key.
```suggestion
Before removing Yagna, please make sure you have backed up your private key. You can find the instructions [here](/docs/creators/javascript/examples/tools/golem-wallet-backup).
```

Backing up to a place where you have GLM's doesn't make sense.

{% /alert %}

## Quick path (Linux only)

> If you used default settings for installation, this set of commands should be sufficient:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you installed Yagna using our quick-installer, execute the following commands to remove all associated components:
```

```bash

> rm ~/.local/bin/yagna

Reviewer: Probably also need to uninstall GFTP

Author: added in next commit

> rm -fr ~/.local/share/yagna

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rm -rf ~/.local/share/yagna
```

> rm -fr ~/.local/share/ya-installer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rm -rf ~/.local/share/ya-installer
```

```

## Detailed instructions for custom installations

### Removing Yagna binaries

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="Linux" %}

> The default Yagna binaries (actually link to binaries) location is: `~/.local/bin/yagna`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yagna binaries are typically located at: `~/.local/bin/yagna`.
```

```bash
rm ~/.local/bin/yagna
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Windows" %}

> The Yagna is "installed" manually by unziping the archive file. All you need to do is find and remove two files: `yagna.exe` and `gftp.exe`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yagna is manually installed by extracting from an archive. Simply locate and delete the `yagna.exe` and `gftp.exe` files.
```

> If they are within your path, you can find them using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If they are in your system's PATH, you can locate them with the following command:
```

```sh
whereis yagna gftp
```

Then remove using `rm <the-path-to-the-file>`.

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

### Removing Yagna data

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="Linux" %}

> Yagna daemon configuration and persistent files are stored in the location defined by the `YAGNA_DATADIR` environment variable. If it was not set, then the default location for Yagna data is: `~/.local/share/yagna`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration and data files for the Yagna daemon are saved in a directory specified by the `YAGNA_DATADIR` environment variable. If you haven't set this variable, Yagna uses a default directory: `~/.local/share/yagna`.

```

> To check if you use a custom data location run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find out if your data is stored in a custom location, type this command in the terminal:
```

```bash
echo $YAGNA_DATADIR
```

> To remove Yagna data in default location use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Yagna data is in the default directory and you wish to remove it, use the following command:
```

```bash
rm -r ~/.local/share/yagna
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Windows" %}
Yagna daemon configuration and persistent files are stored in the location defined by the `YAGNA_DATADIR` environment variable. If it is not set, then the default location for Yagna data is: `%HOMEPATH%\AppData\Roaming\GolemFactory\yagna`.

> To check if you use a custom data location run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify whether you're using a custom location for Yagna data, execute this command:
```

```sh
set YAGNA_DATADIR
```

> To remove Yagna data in default location use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Yagna data is in the default directory and you wish to remove it, use the following command:
```

```sh
rm -r %HOMEPATH%\AppData\Roaming\GolemFactory\yagna
```

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

### Removing Yagna installer files

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="Linux" %}

> To remove Yagna installer files in default location use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the Yagna installer files from their default location, enter the following command:
```

```bash
rm -r ~/.local/share/ya-installer
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Windows" %}

On Windows, you can remove the zip file downloaded from Github.

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

## Uninstalling `gvmkit-build`

> You can check if you have installed `gvmkit-build` globally using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To determine if `gvmkit-build` is installed globally on your system, run the following command:
```

```sh

> npm ls -g | grep gvmkit

Reviewer: Does this work on windows too? Also this doesn't really cover installations using pip

Author: fixed

```

> If so, you can uninstall it with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the command finds `gvmkit-build`, you can remove it by executing:
```

---

> title: How to uninstall Golem Requestor?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to uninstall the Golem Requestor
```

description: Step-by-step guide to removing Yagna components, configs, and data for Requestors.
type: Instructions
---

> # Golem Requestor uninstallation guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to Uninstall the Golem Requestor
```

To find out if your data is stored in a custom location, type this command in the terminal:

```bash
echo $YAGNA_DATADIR
```

If your Yagna data is in the default directory and you wish to remove it, use the following command:

```bash
rm -r ~/.local/share/yagna
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Windows" %}
Yagna daemon configuration and persistent files are stored in the location defined by the `YAGNA_DATADIR` environment variable. If it is not set, then the default location for Yagna data is: `%HOMEPATH%\AppData\Roaming\GolemFactory\yagna`.

To verify whether you're using a custom location for Yagna data, execute this command:

```sh
set YAGNA_DATADIR
```

If your Yagna data is in the default directory and you wish to remove it, use the following command:

```sh
rm -r %HOMEPATH%\AppData\Roaming\GolemFactory\yagna
```

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

### Removing Yagna installer files

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="Linux" %}

To delete the Yagna installer files from their default location, enter the following command:

```bash
rm -r ~/.local/share/ya-installer
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="Windows" %}

On Windows, you can remove the zip file downloaded from Github.

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

> ## Uninstalling `gvmkit-build`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to uninstall gvmkit-build
```
